From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three 54. Recorded live
Thursday, January 10th, 2013. Support for Hansel
minutes is provided by Tellerik
offering the best in developer
tools and support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net training
developers to work smarter and
now offering gesture pack a
powerful, just to recording and
recognition system for Microsoft connect
for windows developers details at
gesture, pak.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Brad Rittenhouse
about malware on the web
today. Scott Hanselman. This is
another episode of Hansel minutes,
and I've got Brad Rittenhouse
from AVG technologies, their antivirus,
and an internet security. And
do you're the AVG link
scanner team lead? That's correct.
Thanks for having me on
Scott. Thanks for hanging out.
We actually met at build
and ended up talking for
quite a long time about
malware, and it's pretty scary
out there right now. Isn't
it? The world changes every
day when it comes to
malware and you know, the
bad guys are getting better.
And so the good guys
have to get better too.
And it it's, it's a,
it's a changing world all
the time. What are the
bad guys want from me?
Like why do they want
my computer? And I believe
it or not. I think
most people don't really consider
themselves this, but every person
is a commodity. And so
the more information that the
bad guys can get about
you, if I can get
your logins, if they can
get especially your bank log-ins,
then they can then turn
around and sell those. So
anything that can be made
at commodity, someone is going
to sell it. So that,
that brings up an interesting
question in my mind that
you know how people are,
they complain about Facebook, but
they're not paying for Facebook,
right? And they always say,
well, if you're not paying,
then you are the product.
Facebook is a big information.
Miner would that mean that
Facebook is really no different
than any of these virus
companies? You said they just
get their information. Cause we
hand it to them. It
all depends on what your
use is, what your intent
is and what you want
to do with that information,
to why they, they sell
that information. Where do the
Facebook sells it to advertisers,
which at least is somewhat
noble or maybe not noble
that somewhat and somewhat American,
right? They're mining our information
in a fairly anonymous way
and saying, OK, you know,
white guys in Oregon, like
peanut butter or whatever, and
that's valuable information. What are
these malware writers doing? Do
they want me personally, my
information, like my social security
number? Or do they want
it Aggregate? They, I think
they would get anything they
can. And, but like everything
else, the driving goal for
these guys is money. They
want to wipe out your
bank account. They want to
use your logins where you've
logged into other websites and
bought things. They want to
use anything they can about
you to generate money. And
a lot of times generating
that money is simply selling
your information to somebody else
that is in some kind
of a criminal activity. They
are, they like loners. Do
you think that these are
just like, I always imagined
some 16 year old Norwegian
kid, who's just writing a
evil toolbar or some piece
of malware just to be
just to be a jerk.
But like, do you think
that they hang out together?
Do they have any sense
of, of, of morality? I
think the world used to.
I mean, that's, that's the
image that we've had in
it that it's some kids
in there in their garages,
what used to be called
script. Katie's where they would
download scripts and share these
things online. Nowadays, it's a
completely different world. It's an
industry that's commercialized malware. Nowadays.
You can buy a tool
kit to generate and distribute
malware. So these are professional
companies, the, the, they release
versions of their tools that
are put out and their
QA in these things, just
like any other software company,
The idea of like a
software company with like, you
know, six folks all go
to work, you know, they
get up, they go to
lunch together. You know, they
have like agile methodology source
control. That is extremely disturbing.
It is, but the stakes
are high. There's a lot
of money to be made
in any time there's money
to be made. People are
going to put together in
their book. They're professionals at
it is where we are.
How do you guys categorize
what, what I would think
of as malware, which is
truly evil software. And I
don't know if there's a
word for it yet, but
you know, just shady software,
you know, that kind of
software that just makes it
just a little too hard
to uninstalls, like trickeries and
things like that. Right? We
there, it used to be
now we had ad ware
and things like that. Got
pushed on your machine and
it's just showing you ads
nowadays, something we would consider
malicious it's anything it gets.
It's a gray area. You
could say. Well, just because
it's annoying that it's malware,
it's doing something in your
machine, even though it may
not be stealing your information.
And then there's the other
side that you know, nothing
about it. It's sitting on
your machine, it's logging keystrokes
and learning all it can
about you and your logins
and information online and how
to get money out of
you or steal your money.
Do you think that I
should be more worried about
JavaScript and websites and links
that I might click or
is it about native software
that actually runs on my
machine? That's written in C
I think both of those
are equally concerns for everyone,
a native application, that's going
to be downloaded onto your
machine, obviously has a lot
more control. It has a
lot more power to affect
you and to take down
your machine, if you want
JavaScript and cookies that are
injected in the pages, I
mean most binary malware, it
gets on your machine through
JavaScript. You hit a web
page. And sometimes whenever there's
what we would call a
drive by download you, go
to a site, something is
downloaded to your machine and
it's binary and can do
bad stuff. You didn't have
to click on anything, but
JavaScript is what was on
the page. Being used in
most cases, to get that
to you, JavaScript is not
only a way for them
to collect stuff, but it
is so it's, it's two
things. JavaScript is a payload
that could go and do
things on its own, but
it's also just a way
to deliver an, a payload
so that they can get
you twice. They can collect
everything that they could find
on your and your browser
and whatever cross site scripting
and cookie stuff that they
do. And then when they're
done, they can go and
send something else down to
cause trouble. Right? And a
lot of that, a big
concern is with privacy these
days and tracking cookies. And
there's a lot more advanced
methods of knowing which sites
you go to and reporting
that information back to various
sites. Do you guys have
any firm relationships with the
bad guys? I mean, I
think if you kind of
like is the police and
sometimes the police will have
like informants and they'll have
relationships with the bad guys
and they'll, they'll meet them
in shady places, Confidential informant
and CIS and things. I'm
just trying to get a
sense of like the, who
the players are. So if
you're the good guys, like,
do you ever like meet
a bad guy? I think
you have to be a
little bit of a, you
have to be in a
gray area. Sometimes my me
personally, my team does not
do the actual research on
web threats, but we do
work closely with them. And
so in order to catch
a bad guy, you kind
of have to think like
a bad guy. You have
to know what they're doing.
You have to know what
tools are available, where they
hang out, if there's underground
kind of forums and things
that they're on, you want
to be on those. You
want to know that information.
And so if at all
possible then yes, then researchers
are going to be in
those areas to try and
learn as much as they
can. And when you guys
in your, your product ABG
link scanner is kind of
a layer of security against
web threats and hacked websites
and things like that. When,
when, when you watch things
evolve, do you start to
notice like fingerprints and say
like, Oh yeah, this is
so, and so's exploit. I've
been seeing that more and
more as people have learned
how, you know, how, how
he, he or she used
that and this kind of
evolution of coding, Absolutely exports.
They evolve because it's a,
it's a never ending cycle.
A bad guy puts out
an exploit. Antivirus company comes
up with a detection method
for it. They detect it.
That exploit changed. The malware
gets changed. Everything is always
changing so that you can,
something can be downloaded on
to someone's machine and affected
in whatever way is intended.
There was a thing a
couple of days ago on
hacker news about, I guess
there's an exploit in a
part of, of rails. And
when, when it kind of
got discovered, the kind of
the alert went out and
it was like, okay, there
will be a proof of
concept of this in the
next four to six hours.
So get ready. And then
we're going to put it
in a thing called meta
sploid. It's a, you know,
it's like a, it's a,
it's amazing. It's a suite
of, of badness. You know
what I mean? It's it's
yeah. I mean, it's The
biggest one. These days is
called, it's called black hole,
the black hole tool kit.
And it's just, it's an
exploit and malware toolkit. It's
I think it accounts for
the last total, like 65%
of all malware out there
that's being detected is somehow
related to delivered with the
black hole toolkit Black hole.
Wow. And it's almost like
they're not right there. There
are a flavor of script
kitty that is, I'm writing
this software just by snapping
it together from other pieces.
Like they're not doing innovative
and interesting new things. They're
saying, I want a piece
of this and a piece
of that, right. Propagated more
that way. But then again,
you also have ones that
they are coming up with
something new. They are coming
up with something that is
hasn't been seen before. And
those are the bad ones.
Especially if you can hit
a top website and you
don't have to click anything
and it, something gets onto
your machine, then that's a
big deal. And that becomes
an enormous commodity in itself
because you can track people.
You can follow people, you
can find out what they're
doing. How, how safe can
people feel like I haven't
had a virus in years,
I think, right. I mean,
I don't know if I
don't have a key logger
right now. Right? Because A
good virus, a good piece
of malware, you don't know
that it's sitting there, you
don't know that it's reporting
back. So that's why relying
on security company, security, software
and everything like AVG is
a suite. Security is built
on layers. You have to,
you know, when you have
a building, you don't just
put a lock on the
door. If it's a museum,
you have a lock on
the door, you have, you
know, electronic stuff, guards, there's
a lot of different layers
that you want to use
in order to, Mm do
you, we were told when
we were talking to bill,
you had some, some stories
about particularly nasty experiences that
you've had in finding these
things. When the researchers bring
an exploit to you, what
are some, I guess I'm
not sure what you're allowed
to say and what you're
not allowed to say. Is
there anything you can talk
about? You know what I'm
saying? Big stories of failure
in stories of fail, I
Think would be the way
to phrase it. That's my
friend that likes to say
we had, we had one
and I'm, I'm allowed to
talk about it. It's on
our website. I think it
was blogged about, and you
can read about it and
blindness August. And just to
give you a little background
internally with antivirus, one of
the big issues is because
you have the power to
block both network connections and
delete files in someone's machine,
just as the nature of
the software. One of the
big worries is about what's
called false positives. So that's
alerting on something that really
isn't bad. And so we
have a lot of mechanisms
in place because if you,
if you do that and
you push out something and
everybody's machine detects, this one
thing that's really not bad,
bad, and you can get
alerts, it's bad, press, it
looks bad. And it also,
you know, you can denial
service your own servers with
that because certain people, when
you install AVG, you do
have the ability to opt
in, to report, whatever is
found back to AVG. And
so one of the big
things we had last August,
there was internal. And we
started getting a lot of
a massive amount of detections
and hits and things being
reported back to the servers.
And at first we thought
it was a, it was
a false positive. We thought
it was wasn't actually real,
but, but the detection that
was being alerted on was
a few days old, which
mostly if it's a false
positive, you'll get it immediately
or within a short timeframe.
And so within like about
a 12 hour period, we
had about 1.6 million detections
and it was detections on
Facebook. And so people are
kinda up in arms and
you know, that's a huge
deal. People are complaining, wanting
to know how to turn,
how do you turn off
this AVG? Cause it's bad.
What had actually happened was
on Facebook. When you go
on the sidebars top bottom,
you have ads. And in
those ads are usually served
up by ad what we
would call ad rotators at
services. And in one of
those, there was actually a
black hole, a black hole
exploit had been injected into
an ad. And so Facebook
had the added come from
another company. And then the
exploit itself had come from
another company, even from that
and gotten on the Facebook.
And it was hitting people's
machines and link scanner was
alerting everyone about it. But
because there was so ma
so much of it at
first, we thought it was
a false positive and was
like, okay, we might need
to turn this off. We
might need to get rid
of it, but it just
goes to show that, and
in this case, you didn't
have to click on anything.
You didn't have to say
anything. He didn't have to
type anything. It just, you
went to the page and
it hit and it hit.
And we have a good
relationship with Facebook. And luckily,
you know, they were able
to take, take their things
down on their side. And
they're very diligent about security
and getting back and taking
care of that. But with
a site like that, you
can imagine it's an enormous
problem. So, so the, the
speed at which it spread
was so fast that it,
of course it must be
a false positive, right. It's
just far too successful. Yes.
It's only based on the
number of detections. It wasn't
really spreading. We figure we,
we protect it probably about
1.3 million people. But when
it happens all at one
time, you know, that's a
big load. And so, yeah,
it's, it just goes to
show that Facebook is considered
everybody considers it a safe
site, but you never know.
Right. I mean it is,
but, and they do a
good job of watching out
for and protecting it. But
when things like that happen,
you know, you do, you
still need software to be
protected. And if these people
hadn't of had AVG installed,
they would have gotten in,
You know, it's, it's funny,
there's the, the software engineering
kind of mantra of like
don't trust, user input. Yes.
And w with, with Facebook,
right. They trust themselves. But
user input in that case
would be the people that
submitted the ads that's right.
Right. And they don't have,
they may not have full
control over it. Or, you
know, even if they're running
things to try to detect,
is this a good or
bad ad on their end?
Maybe they don't, you know,
it's brand new, you don't
have a way to detect
it yet. And it gets
through and it falls through
Yeah. Not a malware thing,
but kind of another example
of not trusting user input,
I guess that the Apple
app store recently shut down
the ability to go in
after the fact and change
screenshots. Yeah. Because people were
uploading stuff with one screenshot,
getting some, getting okayed and
put in the store based
on that. And then sneaking
in later and changing the
screenshot, because that was never,
that, that, that part of
the, the submission process isn't
checked, right. That's really, really
evil. The, these, this job,
these JavaScript things I hear
about JavaScript malware, like I
was pretty familiar and comfortable
with how malware worked maybe
five, six years ago. I
haven't been thinking about JavaScript
as, as a malware delivery
thing. And I've been noticing
a lot that you'll go
to a website and then
it'll be hacked, or you'll
get a note that says
this site is infected and
we're blacklisting it. And it's
because some JavaScript that is
known is on that machine.
I know that my SQL,
my sql.com famously got hacked
in September of 2011. How
does that work? A piece
of JavaScript somehow got onto
the web server and then
served from it, or they
hacked the homepage. I mean,
how does that happen? A
web server is just a
piece of software as well,
and it's connected to the
network and people are able
to access it. And so,
like anything else, there can
be an exploit on that
web server. And somehow the
bad guys were able to
get JavaScript to be served
up through webpages. We get
a lot of our researchers
get in a lot of
ways, act as technical support
sometimes because we have a
lot of sites that come
back at us and say,
well, you're detecting me as
bad. And I'm not. Somebody
goes and looks at it.
And they're like, Hey, look,
you've got this piece of
JavaScript. That's going out to
some other place and it's
on your server. Here it
is. You know, it's, it's
proven. And what had happened
was somehow somebody had injected
this JavaScript onto their page
and it caused a hit
to some other site. And
so once you can initiate,
initiate a server connection, then
there's all kinds of ways
that you can deliver some
kind of a malware payload
to someone I see. So
it could be something as,
as, as basic as they
actually got ahold of the
index dot HTML or whatever
served the initial homepage, but
it could be, they stuck
it in a comment or
in an ad, Or it
would just anywhere that a
JavaScript block of code is
going to run, they can
put that in. Hmm. It
makes me wonder where I
can put a new file
up or whatever, and then
have a link to it.
It makes me wonder why
doesn't happen more. You know,
I mean like, like everything
else in the industry, everybody
tries to patch flaws, like
IIS walls, get patched whenever
they're found, but it's always
going to be software. It's
always going to be written
by people. And there's always
going to be something that,
that you're allowed to exploit.
If I were going to
go to work at, at,
at AVG and work on
malware and JavaScript malware detection
stuff, would you have me
practice writing malware? Like in
a, in a lab environment?
We always say, honestly, I,
I never worked in the
security industry before I worked
at AVG. I've worked there
five years. And so I
w I wasn't really familiar
with it, but being around
researchers, talking to researchers, the
people that do this, hiring
people is a really hard
thing because it's kinda, it's
part art, it's part technical
knowledge. It's, there's, you can't
really teach everyone to do
it. So you have to
find kind of the right
kind of person that thinks
that way, that has all
these crazy tools that they're
able to put together and
use and watch what's coming
off of websites, watch what,
you know, registry, entries, files,
everything that's happens on a
machine. They have to be
able to interpret it and
kind of figure that out.
And they have to know
how to go and find
it. So there's some kind
of social interaction there as
well, but, you know, maybe
they can get in or,
you know, act like they're
a bad guy or whatever,
but just to get in
and talk to other people
When, when you're writing a
detector, you're, I assume you're
looking for some kind of
hashes or some kind of
fingerprint that indicates that this
is the thing that you're
looking for. Is that right?
I mean, do you, do
you take a chunk of
text and hash it, or
do you look for variable
names? What are things that
would tell you that something
is, is malware once you've
identified it, he's like, okay,
I know this is bad.
I need to go and
find that everywhere. It's. So
that's what you normally, you
kind of reverse engineer what
the exploit or malware is
doing, what the delivery method
is. And also what what's
it, what it's going to
do when it gets on
your machine. So you're reverse
engineering that part to detect
it. Yes. Static a of
just looking at strains that
are coming over the network.
That's a simple method to
do it with, but there's,
like I said, with security,
there's layers to it. So
you do that, but you
also do other things like
heuristics, you do behavioral analysis.
You know, if your machine
is connecting to an, a
bunch of different servers that
you've never been to before
that that's probably going to
be a bad thing. And
so there's, there's layers to
that. You, you were asking
about JavaScript earlier and with
that analysis, one thing that
makes it difficult is that
especially black hole, we call
it obfuscated JavaScript. Well, if
you wrote a detection that
just looked for a certain
string and you put that
out, well, the bad guys
just have to change that
string. Okay. That's fine. So
you, you, you do a
lot of different things in
order to detect it, but
the bad guys go one
more, one more step. They
deliver JavaScript that actually gets
randomized whenever the server serves
it up to every different
machine. And so in that,
when it gets to your
machine, the first thing the
JavaScript does is it probably
has some sort of a
key in it. And then
there's a block of text
probably looks like basically for
text that a loop will
run through and it will
unencrypt it on your machine
that was randomized for your
machine, and then it will
run it. So in that
case, you can't really look
for a certain string every
time. Sometimes you have to
look at the method that
is going on behind the
scenes. Okay. Wow. Cause I
was thinking if you know,
there are, there's so many
ways that you could potentially
have false positives. Like if
you look for the wrong
thing, you're going to find
that thing potentially in perfectly
reasonable code. Right. If you
find something that's a Google
analytics, JavaScript, you know, that's
on tons of webpages. And
so you're, you're going to
start alerting on everything. Oh
my goodness. Okay. Wow. What,
what are some trends that
you're seeing in, in JavaScript
malware? Or are we, are
we ahead? Is it, is
it kind of the same
old, same old, or are
we, are we on an
upswing of new techniques? Cause
I know that everyone is
obfuscating their stuff and they're
always looking for new ways
to obfuscate it. So it's,
it's, it's JavaScript within JavaScript
within JavaScript. They'll, they'll use
biter, rays of Unicode and
coded bytes. That's just scripts
within script, within scripts. Like
in the old days, they
would just think of ways
to mess up the script
tag. Right. And now they
just focus on how many
nested layers you know, of,
of inception. Can they make
before the actual code itself
gets, gets executed? What kind
of things are you seeing?
Well, like I said, I'm,
I'm not on the front
lines with that part of
it, but the things that
I'm aware of, a lot
of it, it just, it
continues to be black hole
type things where they it's
kind of a centralized development
of the techniques. And then
it's distributed as a product
where I don't, I don't
know that there's a lot
of really new techniques that
are going that are out
there. But then again, sometimes
people publish that, Oh, this
is sort of a kind
of vulnerability with certain things,
but then someone else gets
ideas from it. Bad guys
can see that. And then
push that out to something
that could explode. Everybody's always
looking for that zero day
thing where they can push
it out and it'll affect
someone. Some big site that'll
affect everyone that comes to
it. And so that's what
they're really looking for. But
don't most of these JavaScript
employee exploits ultimately end in
someone calling evil a couple
of times, like, they'll go
and they'll do. So this
is the thing about JavaScript.
It's so dynamic. They'll, they'll,
they'll write some code and
they'll, they'll make itself modifying
code. Like you said, it's
encrypted to you and then
it's decrypted and then it's
obligated. But ultimately someone's going
to call evil. Could, could
we catch it at evil
or stop allowing evil? I
mean, we could stop stopping
and what, like, you would
know, like you said, getting
data from somewhere else and
then just running it. Well,
you never know what you're
going to get. And so
yeah, you just cut out
evil then, you know, maybe
that's what would happen, but
there's a, there's a lot
of different ways to get
there. You could on escape,
basically your escape, things come
through escaped and stuff like
that. You you'd never know,
you know, what's going to
happen with them, but it
can get executed with a
couple of different ways that
if it gets in a
string and something's going to
run it, then yes, it
could be bad. And if
that was all cut out,
sure it would work. But
I think that also would
probably cut down on a
lot of that dynamic nature
that JavaScript does allow websites
to implement. It's going to
cut down on certain features
that you may be able
to do, but don't know
that it's as simple as
just, Oh, turn off evil
and everything will be perfect.
That is the thing, right?
The most secure machine is
one that's not hooked up
to the network. Absolutely one
that's not turned on. That's
that's even more secure. It's
funny. You know, I, I
used to work in online
banking and you know, you
know, some bank a was
talking to some government agency
B that was ultimately talking
to some other bank. See
I'm obfuscating obviously, and extremely
obfuscated because someone will know.
But basically it was one
of these things where we
had built this amazing, you
know, high tech web service
that would allow transfer of
money from entity one to
entity two. And we had
no idea that one of
the steps in the process
literally involved a guy named
Joe taking a three and
a half inch floppy and
taking a file, like a
file from like a dump,
like a batch off of
one machine turning around in
his swivel chair and going
to the other side of
the room and putting it
into another machine. You see
what I'm saying? Like imagine
had this kind of the
Rube Goldberg and like amazing
bit of real time web
service technology that we created.
And then it turned out
like, why is it so
slow today? What will Joe
is out? Joe needs another
cup of coffee. Joe's Joe's
not there. He'll catch up.
He'll catch up tomorrow. You
also want to make sure
Joe knows the importance of
his job too. He just
thinks it's a random thing.
And nobody cares. Well, that's
a, that's a big difference
too. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. We
can definitely make the very,
very secure web. This is
why I noticed more and
more, a lot of developers
and kind of digerati, you
know, literati are running without
JavaScript enabled, which, which I've
always kind of thought was
a little bit nuts, but
now you're starting to make
me wonder if I should
be doing that. I already
run with flashbacks. Yeah. Well
people and people use no
script and a lot of
these other things. There's a,
I mean, how would I,
how would I explain that
to my dad? That's right.
Well, no, dad, you can't,
you can't click on this
because we turn off JavaScript
and none of your menu,
things work and nothing really
fancy works. You know, we
stepped back in time on
the functionality of it. Yeah.
I don't know the, would
you, do you just surf
regularly or do you, do
you have, do you remember?
No, I serve regularly with
strips And they're not concerned
about it because I have
had comments of, of people.
I don't know if they're,
you know, tin, foil hat,
people, but I've had comments
on my blog. People saying,
well, you're a fool to
be, to be surfing with
JavaScript, John, what are you
insane? And you're asking for
trouble, they're going to, you
know, Yeah. I mean, I'm
not a tenfold head. So
I surf with JavaScript on,
I don't really worry about
it that much, but then
again, I'm not, you know,
I'm not doing anything that
I, they really feel, you
know, somebody who's going to
want. And then that's exactly
my problem. Right. Right. Because
you feel, Oh, well I'm
not doing anything my wants.
I think it's one of
those things until you get
bitten, the foot that you
didn't know, you're like, ah,
I should have been doing
this. And that's education of
users. It's education of people.
I don't know that, that
there is a good answer.
I mean, you can't turn
off your machine, turning off
JavaScript and a lot of
websites that you can't do
anything in it if you
did. And so there's gotta
be some sort of a,
something in the middle, obviously,
you know, software that is
watching out for you is
one of the better solutions
to that because you get
to function like you normally
would. And then hopefully it's
gonna alert you whenever something
bad happens. I think people,
people, the education of people
is some of the big
things with it. People may
think they're protected and they're
not. They, you know, and
they don't go look out
for it either. They're not
searching for it. How much
of this Get nailed are
doing things they shouldn't be
doing. But like when you
look at, when you scan
links throughout the entire web,
I mean, surely it must
be the shady bits of
the web that have the
bigger problem. Like am I'm
not going to get a
major exploit. Well, you did
make, you did mention the
Facebook one, but I guess
I'm saying, if I'm running
around on Russian, you know,
video game sites there, I
can steal software and torrents
and things. That's the shady
side of the web. Am
I going to get nailed
more there than I am@cnn.com?
Not necessarily because look at
the numbers, look how many
people are going and trying
to download a shady game
from somewhere versus how many
people are going to Facebook
or they're going to Google,
or they're going to a
big site. It's just, the
stakes are much higher on
a normal site than they
are at some underground site
that only a few hundred
people are ever going to
hit. So there's no it's
where you want to put
your energy and where the
bad guys want to put
their energy. And the target
is much bigger on bigger
sites. And so it's always,
that's always the goal. Look
at YouTube. YouTube is using
a lot of scripting and
there's been some issues with
it. So, So they might
be using the shady sites
as a practice run, but
you're right. The, the real
money, I suppose, the people
with money and the people
were who, who we want
would be, like I say,
my mom and dad, and
they're going to get them@cnn.com
and places like That's right.
That's right. You want the
biggest number of people, biggest
bang for the buck. So
if you can exploit a
big site, get a lot
of information, then that's where
they want to be. I
dunno, I still would have
a real emotional problem with
like sitting down and writing
software for the V for
the, the discreet purpose of
it, Hurting people. I guess
there's people that they may
not care about. That part
they care about. I'm making
money. And these days, like
I said, like I said,
it's, it's organized, it's like
organized crime, but it's organized
software. It's organized cyber criminals
and they're piecing everything together.
If they find, you know,
there's there's reports where a
bot net whoever's in charge
of a Bodden head or,
or something like that, that's
receiving a lot of this
information. You have to think,
okay, once my machine's compromised,
what happens to the data?
If it gets sent to
someone there's a market there's
markets where people put up
websites and you can buy
your log into Amazon or
whatever other sites that you're
going to, even your bank
account, if there's a bank
account connected, it's probably cost
more, but you can buy
a personal access to someone
for $2, $5. And if
millions of those people, then
that's their income. I wonder
if I need to go
and fight Back the access
to my and how much
that would now put me
in the best. And that
would be a great market
right there. And so you
can go and look and
buy back my information. Yeah.
Yeah. Well, Brad Rittenhouse, thanks
a lot for chatting with
me today. I appreciate it.
Thank you for having me
on again. Brad is a
team lead on AVG link
scanners, go and Google and
find that. And this has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes. We'll see you again
next week.